Installation of Windows

1. Looking for compatibility between my desktop and the Operating System Backed up my data
2. Downloading of Windows operating system
3. Downloading and the Installation Media Creation Tool. Creating Installation Media
4. Running and downloading tool and following the on-screen instructions to create a bootable USB drive. Installed of Windows
5. Inserted the USB drive into my PC and restarted.
6. Booted from the USB drive (you might need to change the boot order in BIOS).



Installation of Git

1. Downloaded Git
2. Installed Git
3. Ran the downloaded installer.
4. Followed the installation wizard and select the default options unless specific customizations are needed.
5. Verification
6. Opened Command Prompt and typed git --version to verify Git is installed.


Installation of Python

1. Downloaded Python
2. Install Python:
3. Ran the downloaded installer.
4. Checked the box "Add Python to PATH".
5. Select "Customize installation" if you need specific options, otherwise proceed with default settings.
6. Verified Installation
7. Opened Command Prompt and type python --version to verify Python is installed.
8. Installed Python Packages
9. Used pip (Python's package installer) to install additional packages as needed, e.g., pip install numpy.


Installation MySQL Database

1. Downloaded MySQL Installer.
2. Install MySQL:
3. Ran the downloaded installer.
4. Selected "Developer Default" setup type for a complete installation.
5. Followed the setup wizard, configuring the server and setting the root password as prompted.
6. Verified Installation:
7. Open MySQL Workbench and connect to the local MySQL server to verify the installation.

Installation Visual Studio Code

1. Downloaded Visual Studio Code
2. Install Visual Studio Code:
3. Ran the downloaded installer.
4. Followed the installation wizard, keeping the default settings.
5. Installed the Extensions
6. Opened Visual Studio Code.
7. Installed essential extensions like Python, GitLens, and MySQL.


Configurations and Customizations
Git Configuration

a. git config --global user.name "Your Name"
b. git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"
c. Set Default Editor:


d. git config --global core.editor "code --wait"
e. Python Virtual Environment
f. Create Virtual Environment

g. python -m venv myenv
h. Activate Virtual Environment

MySQL Configuration
Secure Installation


mysql_secure_installation
Created a New User:

SQL

1. Created new user 'newuser'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'password'
2. Granted all privileges *.* TO 'newuser'@'localhost'
3. Visual Studio Code Customization

